김치수제비 만드는 법
Make the dough with a food processor:
1. Be sure to use the dough blade attachment in your food processor. Pour ¾ cup water into the bowl, then add the salt, oil, and flour. Process for about 1 to 2 minutes until the dough forms into a ball.
2. Transfer the dough into a plastic bag and knead for another minute through the bag. Set aside to rest while you prepare the soup broth. (You can refrigerate the dough for up to 3 days.)
…or make the dough by hand:
1. Combine the flour, kosher salt, oil, and ¾ cup water in a large bowl. Mix with a wooden spoon until the ingredients come together into a lumpy dough.
2. Knead the dough by hand for 10 to 12 minutes, until it forms a smooth ball. Seal in a plastic bag and set aside to rest while preparing the broth. (You can refrigerate the dough for up to 3 days.)
Make the soup:
1. Put the cleaned anchovies into a soup pouch and seal it tightly, or wrap them in a cheese cloth, all tied up.
2. In a large pot, combine the water, anchovy pouch, kimchi, kimchi brine, onion, and garlic. Cook for 25 minutes over medium high until the kimchi turns a little soft and the broth is nicely infused with the anchovy flavor. If the soup starts to boil over, crack the lid a bit.
3. Take out the anchovy pouch and discard.
4. Add the fish sauce (or salt to your taste).  Taste the broth and add more fish sauce or salt if you think it needs it. Remove from the heat.
Make the noodles and serve:
1. Take the dough out of the plastic bag. Knead it on a cutting board or just in your hands for 1 to 2 minutes until it’s soft and smooth.
2. Uncover the soup and bring it back to a boil. Divide the dough ball into 2 pieces so that you can work with the dough more easily. Fill a small bowl with water to wet your hands and fingertips so the dough doesn’t stick to them.
3. Hold a dough ball in one hand and with your other hand pull the dough and stretch out a little bit until you get a paper-thin, bite-size piece, about 2 inches wide by 1½ inches long and ⅛ inch thick. Tear it off and drop it into the boiling soup. It may take 2 or 3 pulls before you can get the dough thin enough.
4. Wet your hands again and continue to stretch and tear off noodles and drop them into the boiling soup, wetting your fingers whenever the dough begins to stick, until all the dough is used up. Repeat it with the other dough piece. Make sure that your noodles are thin, and work as quickly as you can.
5. tir the noodle soup with a ladle or wooden spoon. Add the gochujang, green onions, cover, and cook for 5 minutes over medium-high heat (crack the lid if necessary to prevent the soup from boiling over), until all the noodles are floating and cooked through.
6. Remove from the heat and stir in the toasted sesame oil (if used). Ladle the soup into individual bowls and serve right away  with  side  dishes.